description: Explain assignments (#9)
open-education-hub/methodology: description.md

### Assignments

> Assignments are practical activities that learners undertake individually or in teams over the span of multiple weeks.

Reviewer: You should specify that they may be both graded and ungraded, but most of the time they are graded to incentivise students.

The primary objective of an assignment is to create a compelling scenario that allows learners to apply the concepts they have learned.

> #### Support

Reviewer 2: I think the title is misleading. This might better refer to mentorship or guidance. Support is either material or somebody telling you what to do, think manuals and technical support for a software solution

> Assignments are typically meant for individual work, but they often require support from trainers.

Reviewer: You should also cover team-based assignments. VMChecker accommodates them flawlessly, as it's based on GitLab.

Author: I can provide a general view of this as we have not experienced this idea.

This support aims to clarify requirements and prevent students from getting stuck on tasks.

> Going beyond basic assistance, forums can be implemented as public platforms where learners can openly share questions, provide answers, and engage in discussions without revealing explicit solutions.

Reviewer: You should touch on our plan to have students review each other's work.

Reviewer 2: We have seen more success with direct feedback on live chats, like Teams. The advantage of this is that it's more of a conversation, with the disadvantage that threads might get lost in the chatter.

Maybe we should tough on this too. Only forums for support is restrictive.

Author: > You should touch on our plan to have students review each other's work.

This makes sense in the context of smaller tasks like drills or lab exercises. 
The goal is to have assignments automatically graded, making students review each other's work does little to improve the general experience.

#### Difficulty

> Each assignment should employ a gradual increase in difficulty, fostering self-evaluation and the development of critical thinking skills.

Reviewer: By self-evaluation I guess you actually mean that the assignment comes with a checker script, not that the students evaluate themselves, but the meaning is the latter.

> By building a cohesive story, learners actively engage with known solutions, explore limitations, and discover suitable strategies.

Reviewer: This phrase is just empty words. Delete it.

Assignments can encourage individual research by posing questions that go beyond the covered material.

> These deep-dives should be marked as **bonus tasks**, so students feel encouraged to further explore, rather than constrained.

Reviewer: Never forgetti: the bonus tasks shall always be graded :lotus_position_man:.

#### Project

Assignments can serve as stages of a larger project.
This encourages a structured and progressive approach to learning by understanding how building blocks come together.

> However, opting for a project-based approach rather than individual assignments requires additional effort and consideration. One major challenge is the strong interdependence between each stage, making it more difficult to modify or alter one stage without affecting the others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, opting for a project-based approach rather than individual assignments requires additional effort and consideration.
One major challenge is the strong interdependence between each stage, making it more difficult to modify or alter one stage without affecting the others.
```

> Infrastructure-wise, we should have a way to allow students to work on any given stage even though they were unable to finish the previous one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infrastructure-wise, we allow students to work on any given stage even though they were unable to finish the previous one.
```
Introducing "should" makes the phrase sound weak.

Reviewer 2: With regards to infrastructure, we also have to keep in mind that the infrastructure has to be as easy to use as possible. This also proves a challenge depending on the subject.

### Assignments

> Assignments are practical activities that learners undertake individually or in teams over the span of multiple weeks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assignments are practical activities that learners undertake individually or in teams over o longer timespan.
```

Reviewer 3: I would also use the wording "unassisted". Assistance can be provided during office hours or online, but learners do things by themselves.

#### Difficulty

An assignment should have a progressive increase in difficulty among its tasks.
Structuring an assignment with layers of complexity allows students to assess their current knowledge level and offers guidance for improvement.

The level of difficulty should align with the assignment's narrative.
Presenting a smooth progression of tasks that gradually become more challenging is preferable to artificially labeling them as "easy" or "hard".
The latter approach can damage the student's experience, as tasks marked as "easy" may offer less sense of accomplishment upon completion, while "hard" tasks might seem intimidating.

Assignments offer the opportunity to explore beyond the studied subject through bonus tasks.
These additional tasks present challenges that extend the principles applied in other parts of the assignment.
They can vary from expanding on an existing task to requesting entirely different solutions or providing critical analysis of a particular approach.

Marking these tasks as "bonus" differs from merely labeling their difficulty.
They are perceived as either alternatives to other tasks or optional.

> However, it is crucial to maintain balance when incorporating bonus tasks into the assignment to ensure students remain engaged enough to tackle them.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
However, it is crucial to maintain balance when incorporating bonus tasks into the assignment to ensure students remain sufficiently engaged to tackle them.
```

#### Grading

All assignments need to incorporate an internal scoring system that tracks the progress of solving each task and assigns a value to it.
Such a system is crucial because the learning process heavily relies on feedback.

> A manual solution becomes impractical due to scalability issues when dealing with a large number of students and attempts.

Reviewer 4: Try to use a less scientific tone as this may be confusing. I think being blunt about it is better: "Manually grading assignments is a time-consuming, repetitive and boring task." -> it implies that the more students you have, the more time you spend.

> In addition to internal grading, there are both pros and cons to assigning a weight to the assignment that contributes to the final grade of the subject.

Reviewer 4: I'm not convinced that we should be getting into this aspect when discussing the methodology.

### Assignments

Assignments are unassisted practical activities that learners undertake individually or in teams over a longer timespan.

> The primary objective of an assignment is to create a compelling scenario that allows learners to apply the concepts they have learned.

Reviewer 4: I have used the term "concept", however, @razvand suggested that "topic" is a better term. I have updated my PRs to use "topic", so you should also do it for the sake of consistency.

Reviewer 4: Also, I would emphasize the fact the difference between assignments and drills/quizzes. Note that some universities have assignments in the form of a collection of quizzes or drills or both.

> #### Storing Assignments

Reviewer 3: This goes to the `Projects` subsection in the `Types of Content` section. Here you talk about teaching stages: launching, providing support, grading assignments, i.e. what happens during an actual semester - unlike I know we typically do, the assumption is that all materials are ready in the repository **before** the start of the semester.

The central component of an assignment is the assignment statement, serving the purpose of offering a detailed explanation for each task.
Additionally, it may offer an introduction, details about the evaluation process, and further referrences.
Typically, this content is stored in either markdown format or as a PDF, allowing for the incorporation of media files.

An assignment might contain any of the following:

- Utility Files

>   These files can be exemplars or code snippets meant to facilitate solution development.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  These files can contain models or code snippets meant to facilitate solution development.
```

  They often come into play when addressing topics tangential to the main assignment task.
  These files are designed for utility purposes and should remain unaltered by learners; they are not subject to evaluation.

- Skeleton Files

  These serve as the starting point of the assignment and establish a similar pattern, which is crucial for automated testing.
  Depending on the subject matter, skeleton files range from templates and fill-in-the-blank outlines to simple guidelines.

> - Automated Evaluation Program

Reviewer 4: I would discuss a bit the possibility of such evaluation programs and highlight the fact that this is not applicable for open ended assignments such as essays, proofs etc.

  Such a program (a checker) is generally a script that evaluates a given solution and compares the result to a series of expected metrics.

>   Optionally, the checker might use pairs of inputs and expected results to evaluate the solution on a set of predefined conditions.

Reviewer 4: Why isn't the statement not part of this bulleted list?

Reviewer 4: Also, I think that this list should be made more Computer Science agnostic. As it is, it looks like this is useful only if you a CS educator.

A general structure for the assignment directory is:

```bash
├── Statement.md
├── media
│   ├── img1.png
│   └── img2.png
├── utility
│   └── example.txt
├── skeleton
│   └── template
└── checker
    ├── checker.py
    ├── test-expected
    │   ├── test-1-exp.txt
    │   └── test-2-exp.txt
    └── test-input
        ├── test-1.txt
        └── test-2.txt
```

#### Checking Assignments Automatically

TODO

> #### Support

Reviewer 3: I would add Discord as a popular alternative for discussions. And I would also add the idea of mailing lists, custom fora, Stack Exchange.

Assignments are typically designed for individual work, but they often require support from trainers to clarify requirements and prevent students from getting stuck on tasks.
This goal can be accomplished by utilizing platforms to create dedicated channels for assignments:

- Live Chats ([MS Teams](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-teams/))

  This serves as the space for general questions and ideas that aren't focused on any particular task.
  Such a platform can foster open discussions and enhance comprehension of the assignment.

- Forum ([Moodle](https://moodle.org/))

  A forum provides a structured and navigable environment, enabling detailed discussions.

>   By offering distinct threads for each task, discussions can be revisited to aquire information.

Reviewer 3: I would categorize them as forums, mailing lists, chats, provide examples, and show how each of them benefits the process. We don't focus so much on them, they should just be mentioned.
